Update the docs for transaction flow (#659)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/extending/apps/synchronous-webhooks/transaction-webhooks.mdx

---
title: Transaction webhooks
---

# Introduction

:::caution
This feature is currently in **Feature Preview**. This part of Saleor is not complete
and subject to change but is available to experiment and provide feedback.
:::

> Transaction webhooks are synchronous webhooks that allow delegating the action for transaction to Saleor App.
> Synchronous means that these webhooks expect a response of a particular
> shape to be returned from the App to continue processing in Saleor. Transaction webhooks only
> support the HTTP(S) protocol; they are sent as POST requests with the application/json body
> and expect a response of the same content type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transaction webhooks are synchronous webhooks that allow delegating the transaction to the Saleor App.
Synchronous means that these webhooks expect a response of a particular shape to be returned from the App to continue processing in Saleor. Transaction webhooks only support the HTTP(S) protocol; they are sent as POST requests with the `application/json` body and expect the response of the same content type.
```

Author: > Transaction webhooks are synchronous webhooks that allow delegating the transaction to the Saleor App.

It is not exactly delegating the transaction to Saleor app. The transaction is on our side, we trigger the request for an action to the App, and the app processes the action request and reports the event related to the transaction.

## Key concepts

The `HANDLE_PAYMENTS` permission is required for the App to be able to receive transaction webhooks.
The webhook notification is only sent to a specific app that is connected to given transaction.

## General transaction flow

The usage of the webhook is strictly related to the payment flow handled by transactions.

> More details about whole transaction flow can be found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more details about the transaction flow
```

[here](../../../payments#saleor-app-recommended).

## Transaction charge

`TRANSACTION_CHARGE_REQUESTED`

:::info

This feature was introduced in **Saleor 3.12**.

:::

> Synchronous webhook called inside celery task. Called when staff user requests the charge action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A synchronous webhook called inside a Celery task. They are called when a staff user requests the charge action.
```

> It expects in the response at least `pspReference`. The `pspReference` will be attached to [TransactionEvent](api-reference/objects/transaction-event.mdx)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The webhook expects to return at least the `pspReference` in the response. The `pspReference` will be attached to [TransactionEvent](api-reference/objects/transaction-event.mdx)
```

> with request details. Attached `pspReference` to "request" object means that the webhook has been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with request details. When `pspReference` is attached to the `request` object, it means that the webhook has been
```

successfully processed by app. Optionally the result data can be provided. The data is
used to provide the final status of the requested action, and it will be used to create a new [TransactionEvent](api-reference/objects/transaction-event.mdx)
object. The new [TransactionEvent](../../../../api-reference/objects/transaction-event.mdx) object will have provided `pspReference`, and will be used in the
[re-calculation of the transaction's amount process](../../../payments#re-calculations-of-transaction-amounts).

### Request

Saleor will send a
[TRANSACTION_CHARGE_REQUESTED](../../../../api-reference/enums/webhook-event-type-sync-enum#code-style-fontweight-normal-webhookeventtypesyncenumbtransaction_charge_requestedbcode)

> webhook by using [TransactionChargeRequested](../../../../api-reference/objects/transaction-charge-requested) subscription type
> or with pre-defined payload in case of missing subscription query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
webhook by using [TransactionChargeRequested](../../../../api-reference/objects/transaction-charge-requested) subscription type or with a pre-defined payload in case of a missing subscription query.
```

  "externalUrl": "<[Optional] external url with action details.",
  "message": "<[Optional] message related to the action."
}
```

:::caution
In case when one of `result`, `amount` is provided and the second one is missing,
the response will not be processed, and Saleor will create the failure event.
:::

## Transaction cancellation

`TRANSACTION_CANCELATION_REQUESTED`

:::info

This feature was introduced in **Saleor 3.12**.

:::

Synchronous webhook called inside celery task. Called when staff user requests the cancel action.
It expects in the response at least `pspReference`. The `pspReference` will be attached to
[TransactionEvent](api-reference/objects/transaction-event.mdx)
with request details. Attached `pspReference` to "request" object means that the webhook has been
successfully processed by app. Optionally the result data can be provided. The data is
used to provide the final status of the requested action, and it will be used to create a new
[TransactionEvent](api-reference/objects/transaction-event.mdx) object. The new
[TransactionEvent](../../../../api-reference/objects/transaction-event.mdx) object will have
provided `pspReference`, and will be used in the

> [re-calculation of the transaction's amount process](../../../payments#re-calculations-of-transaction-amounts).

Reviewer: Please adjust to the feedback above.
